+++
title = "ACCELERATE - Modular Abstraction Layer for Simplified Integration of Machine Learning Models"
path = "accelerate"
+++

This project aims to develop a modular machine learning model abstraction layer for the novel open source browser  “Verso” to seamlessly load and utilize various machine learning models. The proposed solution involves using  the Rust programming language and will provide bindings to existing machine learning libraries, use common model formats such as ONNX, and implement a basic API for interaction with different model architectures  and types. This approach aims to make it easy for everyday users to load and run AI models without worrying about specifics, and further also provides web developers with simpler access through a minimal API for integration in web content. 

The intended abstraction layer will be implemented in the Servo webview, and the expected deliverable is a source code library that runs  cross-platform within the Verso browser. With this approach, we aim to provide the first stepping stone towards a coherent user experience for using machine learning models in a browser such as a11y, DID service  brokerage, predictive page loading, etc.

By addressing several key challenges, such as defining a common API for different open source machine  learning models, ensuring data privacy and security, striking a balance between smaller and high-performance  models, and considering various hardware configurations, this project aims to significantly enhance user experiences.

## Innovation

With the Verso browser, we aim to revolutionize web browsing through comprehensive integration of on-device  AI. Unlike Firefox Nightly's experimental AI features, Verso offers a robust, fully integrated experience.  Our key innovation is a highly adaptable abstraction layer that seamlessly incorporates standardized AI  models, including transformers and computer vision models like YOLO V9 for object detection. The abstraction layer supports multiple model formats, adapts to various hardware configurations, and  provides a common API for diverse machine learning tasks, aiding Verso developers. It enables advanced  features like intelligent content summarization and image description, offering a more cohesive and  user-friendly experience than Firefox. Verso-Accelerate focuses on balancing high-performance models with hardware compatibility, ensuring efficient machine learning enhanced browsing across devices. By leveraging and expanding upon open-source machine learning  models, the abstraction layer for Verso will set a new standard for intelligent, privacy-preserving web interaction, enhancing user productivity and accessibility.

# Modularity and Envisioned Use Cases

We're developing ACCELERATE as a seamless module, easily loadable within Verso as an opt-in feature. Our goal is to empower users with the flexibility to enhance their browsing experience. With our model loader, you can experience a more natural reading experience through text-to-speech models, supporting individuals with vision impairments. The addition of live captions to videos further expands accessibility features, ensuring that everyone can engage with multimedia content. The model loader also enables the summary feature for website content, allowing users to quickly grasp essential information at a glance. This is especially useful in today's fast-paced digital environment where information density can be overwhelming. By integrating these features into your browsing experience, we're committed to making your online interactions more intuitive and enjoyable.
